# Generic views

[video 29 - Generic Views](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c3yB0_4Yd48&index=29&list=PL6gx4Cwl9DGBlmzzFcLgDhKTTfNLfX1IK)

Generic views allow us to simplify even more our model functions, and make them more dynamic.


>The main process, consists in converting all our functions into classes.

Generic views are actual classes, instead of functions.

## ListView

To work with a ListView, we need to do the following:

1. we create a class with the name of the our original view, followed by the word *view*, and make it inherit from **Generic.ListView** (in this case, it is ```Class IndexView(Generic.ListView)```)
2. We specify a specify the template name using the variable **template_name**
3. Specify the information that needs to be returned using a query. the query will be defined in the method ```def_getqueryset(self)```


In our **servers/views.py** I have erased the whole document, and wrote a first class:

```python

Class IndexView(Generic.ListView):
    template_name = 'server/index.html'

    def get_queryset(self):
        return Album.objects.all()

```

>We can see we are inheriting from *Generic.ListView*


### syntax

>def get_queryset(self):**
>   return <your query>()


>def get_queryset(self):**
>   return Servers.objects.all()


(There are actually different types of views we can use(inherit from), but in these examples, we will only tackle **ListView** and **DetailView**)

## DetailView

```python

Class DetailView(generic.DetailView):
    model = Servers
    template_name = 'server/detail.html'


```

>We can see we are inheriting from *Generic.DetailView*

We define the model from which we want to have the details of using the variable **model** and then point it to the template we want him to put the details information in using the variable **template_name**

## Modify the urls.py

This is actually not enough. We also need to modify the **urls.py**

This is so far what our **scripts/urls.py** looks like:

```python

from django.conf.urls import url
from . import views

app_name = 'servers'

urlpatterns = [
    url(r'^$', views.index, name='index'),
    url(r'^(?P<server_id>[0-9]+)/$',views.detail,name='detail')
]

```

> The urlpatterns principle is the following one:
> 1. It selects an URL and point it to some code (a view) based on a Regex match,
> 2. The view **MUST** return a **function**.
> 3. (That function in the end produces HTML code)

When using classes, we are not using functions anymore, but classes and methods. which means, that calling our functions as we did before using the following syntax won't work anymore:

```python

url(r'^(?P<server_id>[0-9]+)/$',views.detail,name='detail')

```

in this case ```views.detail``` is actually:

views: point to the views.py <br>
detail: point to the **function 'detail'** located in the views.py


To integrate the generic views we created above, we will need to do the following:

1. we keep the 'views' keyword.
2. We add the class name to which we want the regex to refer to. -> ```IndexView```
3. we need to convert the class, to a function, since the view, ** must** return a function. -> ```.as_view()```

In the end, our url will look like this:

```python
url(r'^(?P<server_id>[0-9]+)/$',views.IndexView.as_view(),name='detail')
```